---
title: '"Maybe I''m desolation"'
publishDate: 05 Jan 2023
tag: prose
author: Also on Medium
authorURL: https://medium.com/@nickorfield/maybe-im-desolation-a4f1501d40df
description: Short story
layout: ../../layouts/BlogPost.astro
---

The surface of the desk was so scratchy it felt like it was hurting my face. Suddenly I was startled out of the dream fantasy. The place almost had some familiar office look, but it’s “almost” because it was utterly lonely, dark, and cluttered. Papers with reports were scattered in every corner you could see. A few file cabinets were nestled in each other’s corners as if they wanted to spread the warmth. Many armchairs lay on their sides on the floor, as well as a row of three bookcases filled with file cabinets.

During those moments strangeness invaded my body and I couldn’t help but feel it. It asked me: What are you doing here; What happened; Who are you? Until I checked the patch pocket on the light blue long-sleeved shirt and slightly worn black chino pants I was wearing. With a flick of my wrist, I pulled out my employee ID. It read: “Max Douglas. Administrative Assistant. Date of birth: November 25, 1965 (…)”. It was a long day, but I still did not know why the company was like this, nor why there was no one on the floor. The doubts just kept piling up like bricks. Leaving the building through the front door didn’t help much.

I had to go down the stairs because the elevator wouldn’t open, and indeed, the suspicions that there was no one in the building were true, even more so than I thought. Night had fallen and the city slept in an intimidating silence. It was quite late and I had only one thing on my mind: to go home and forget everything. I didn’t stop to wait for some kind of transportation and I insisted on walking with a dose of paranoia about the streets under the street lights; which to my “fortune” were out of order. Under my shoes were newspapers that were at least a week old. And the stores were all closed and with signs screaming the same thing. The tracks scratched helplessly, so helplessly that I could finally notice their cracks and unevenness. The vertical condos had nothing hanging in their windows. The parks with ghost playgrounds like the ones in the malls and their extravagant tents. No animals or homeless in the alleys. No conversation floated in the desolate wind that stirred the faint giant billboards lingering at the holy black funeral.

It was very easy to lose track of time. My body became heavier as I walked as if the pressure wanted to bewitch me: his puppet. At every moment an amnesic state of my own was added to the madness, one more cause of the — hopefully — visions. Finding myself in that minuscule source of information that was the card did not prevent me from disassociating from my past self. The face looked like that of a stranger and I never remembered wearing any similar garment before waking up. And I lived with tired people who simply decided to disappear or that not only their souls but their very presence were consumed by Death…

The night light was dim but at least it helped to find the way back home. Which by the way was already very close to the neglected backyard. In it were my wilted and decapitated geraniums and chrysanthemums. With some desperation, I ran towards the entrance. I shook my hand inside every pocket I had to get the damn key out. In the end, I found it in I don’t know where, but I had it. Sweat ran with its streams all over my forehead until it reached my chin as I archaically tried to remember how to open doors. Finally, I entered…

The darkness almost spared no room or place. I was a little more comfortable so I decided to satisfy my curiosity by walking around and looking at how old and neglected my home looked, almost in the same condition as the office. Even the walls were cracked and the floor was propped up. However, the amnesiac feeling of not feeling like myself would not go away. The blade of silence just kept going and kept threatening me with betrayal. It was just as I was clearing my mind and seeing how pale my skin had become that I noticed a small light peeking from the dining room, probably from the chandelier hanging from the ceiling that I had passed by before but ignored. Now it was suddenly on. I attempted to swallow my fear and walked shakily to see.

In front of it: little by little I raised my gaze until I could see a man lying on the floor. He had no sign of injury and was face down. But he was wearing a light blue long-sleeved shirt and slightly worn black chino pants. Turning my gaze a little to the right I saw, resting on and on the table respectively, a strangely familiar elongated sickle and a familiar robe made of fine black velvet.
